Look, I get it. Interview prep sucks.
It's stressful. It's timeconuming. And
it feels like no matter how hard you
work, you're never quite ready. Now, I
was in this exact same position. I was
making these same five mistakes over and
over again and failing technical
interviews, even though I thought I was
more than qualified for the jobs. So,
today, I'm going to save you the time
and break down the five mistakes most
people make in technical interviews that
cause them to fail. The first mistake is
randomly grinding leak code. And this is
by far the most common one that I see.
Now, here's what happens. You decide you
want to get a job at Google or Amazon or
Meta or whatever. You hear that you need
to start practicing coding problems. So,
you go to Le Code, you create an
account, you see 3,000 problems staring
at you, and you just start solving. No
plan, no structure, no direction. You
pick a problem that looks interesting,
you solve it, you move on to the next
one. Now, maybe you sort by most popular
or most likes. You pick a company,
whatever, and you just work your way
down the list. You are grinding. You're
putting in the hours. You feel like
you're doing the work. You solve 50
problems and you feel pretty good. You
hit 100 and you start thinking you're
getting somewhere. You hit 200 and
you're convinced that you're ready. Like
you've solved 200 problems, right? That
has to count for something, but it
doesn't. And then you walk into an
actual interview, the interviewer gives
you a problem and it's not exactly like
anything you've seen before. Maybe it's
a little bit similar, maybe there's a
twist, maybe it's completely different.
And your brain just freezes. You don't
even know where to start. you're
panicking and you're sitting there
thinking, you know, I solved 200
problems. How is this even possible?
Now, here's why. You weren't learning
patterns. You were just memorizing
answers. There is a massive difference.
When you grind random problems without
understanding the underlying concepts,
you're just training yourself to
recognize specific questions. The second
something changes, different input,
different constraint, different edge
case, you're completely lost. Random
grinding gives you a false sense of
progress. You're checking boxes. You're
seeing green check marks. You feel
productive, but you're not actually
building the skills that matter in a
real interview. Mistake number two is
passive learning. And honestly, this one
is sneaky because it feels like you're
being productive. You're watching
YouTube videos, you're reading blog
posts, you're going through tutorials,
you're spending hours every single day
studying, and at the end of the week,
you feel like you've done a lot, like
you've learned a lot. You can talk about
dynamic programming. You know what a
binary search tree is. You've seen
someone solve the classic interview
problems, but here's the thing. You
haven't actually done anything. You've
just watched other people do it. Think
about it. You watch a 20-minute video
where some guy explains how to solve a
lengthless problem. He walks through the
logic, writes out the code, explains
every line. You're nodding along. You
know, it makes sense. You get it. And
then 2 days later, you sit down to solve
a similar problem on your own, and you
can't even remember where to start.
You're just staring at a blank screen
trying to recall what the guy in the
video did, and it's just gone. That's
not a you problem. That's how the brain
works. Watching someone else do
something is not the same as doing it
yourself. It's like watching someone do
push-ups and thinking you're getting
stronger. You might understand the
mechanics, but your muscles haven't done
any work. Passive learning gives you
familiarity, not confidence. You'll
recognize a problem in an interview.
You'll feel like you've seen it before,
but you won't actually be able to solve
it when it actually counts. And the
interviewer is going to see right
through this when he asks you something
that you weren't prepared for or you
didn't see the guy in the YouTube video
explain to you directly. Now we go to
the third mistake, which is ignoring
communication. And this one catches a
lot of people off guard. Most engineers
think that technical interviews are just
about writing the correct code. Get the
right answer, pass the test, get the job
simple, right? Wrong. Interviewers are
evaluating way more than just your code.
They're watching how you think, how you
approach a problem, how you ask
clarifying questions, how you explain
your reasoning, how you handle when you
get stuck, and how you communicate
trade-offs between different solutions.
If you solve the problem perfectly, but
you can't explain why your solution
works, that's a massive red flag. If you
go silent for 5 minutes while you're
thinking, that's red flag. If you just
start coding without talking through
your approach first, that's a red flag.
And these are all reasons why you will
fail the interview. Now, here's the
problem. Most people practice alone.
They sit in their room, right? They open
lead code. They start typing a bunch of
problems, you know, solving them
whatever in silence. They're not
talking. They're not explaining. Just
them in the screen. Then they get into a
real interview and suddenly there's
another human being who's watching them
expecting them to talk, expecting them
to explain their thinking and they just
freeze because they've literally never
practiced to do this, right? And this is
a skill on its own. Now, I've talked to
engineers who were technically
brilliant, way smarter than me, but they
just kept failing interviews because
they couldn't communicate under
pressure. they'd solve the problem in
their head, but they couldn't articulate
it out loud. Or they get stuck and
completely go silent instead of talking
through their thought process and giving
themselves a chance with the
interviewer. Now, the fourth mistake on
my list is having weak fundamentals. And
I see this all the time. Engineers get
excited about interview prep. They want
to jump straight into the hard problems.
You know, they start solving mediums and
hards on leak code on day one, and they
want to feel like they're making
progress on the real interview
questions. But here's the thing, they
don't actually understand the basics.
They don't really know what a hashmap
is, right? Or how it works under the
hood. They can't explain the difference
between BFS and DFS without googling it.
They're shaky on bigo notation. Usually,
they learned all of this stuff in
college three or four or five years ago,
and they just assume that they still
remember. Then they get into an
interview. They solve the problem, or at
least they think they did, and then the
interviewer asks them a follow-up
question. You know, what's the time
complexity of this solution? Why did you
use a hashmap instead of an array? Can
you walk me through how this algorithm
handles, you know, this XYZ edge case?
and they just can't answer it
confidently. They stumble or they guess.
And that uncertainty shows the
interviewer that they don't really have
a full understanding of the fundamentals
and what it is that they're doing. Now,
you can't build a house on a weak
foundation. And you can't pass technical
interviews without solid foundations as
well. I don't care how many leak code
problems you've solved. If you can't
explain basic data structures and
analyze time complexity, you are going
to struggle and I'd be very surprised if
you get an offer after a technical
interview. Now, we move to the fifth
mistake, which is having no structure.
And honestly, this is the one that ties
everything together. Now, here's what
most people's interview prep looks like.
They watch a YouTube video about dynamic
programming. They solve a random lead
code problem about arrays. They read a
blog post about system design that they
found on Reddit. They buy the book, you
know, cracking the coding interview and
read the first few chapters before it
starts collecting dust on their shelf.
And they're hoping that all of this, you
know, somehow adds up to something
coherent. Like, if they consume enough
random content on the internet, they'll
eventually be ready for interviews. But
it never works that way. There's no
curriculum, no progression, no one
telling you what to focus on first, what
to learn next, or whether you're
actually ready for interviews. You have
no idea if you're on the right track.
You don't know what gaps you have, and
you're just kind of wandering around in
the dark hoping that you stumble onto
the right path. Now, this is why people
spend 6 months preparing and still fail
for interviews. It's not about the time,
it's about how you use that time. You
could spend 500 hours preparing, but if
those 500 hours are scattered and
unfocused, you're just not going to get
the results. So, with that said, how do
you actually avoid all five of these
mistakes? Well, first, you need a
system. Something that gives you
structure. Something that teaches you
patterns instead of just throwing random
problems at you. Something that forces
you to actively practice, not passively
watch videos. And something that tells
you exactly what to learn and in what
order. Now, that's exactly why when I
was doing this, I used Algo Expert. And
honestly, it completely changed the game
for me because instead of doing 3,000
random problems with no direction, Algo
Expert just has 200 handpicked
questions. And I mean handpicked.
They're specifically chosen to cover the
patterns and the concepts that actually
show up in real interviews at companies
like Google, Amazon, Meta, Microsoft,
and Apple. And they also cover the
foundations. So again, you learn how to
think about these problems and that
pattern recognition rather than just
memorize it. Now, every single question
has a two-part video explanation. And
honestly, for me, this was the most
helpful part because the first part of
the video explanation teaches you how to
think about the problem, what pattern to
use, why it works, how to approach it,
and overall helps you build that
intuition that you need in order to
solve a problem that you haven't seen
before. When you go into a coding
interview, this isn't a memorization
game. It's problem solving. And if no
one ever taught you how to do the
problem solving correctly, how are you
going to pass the interview? So
regardless of the questions that you
want to practice, especially at the
beginning, you need that in-depth
explanation, which is why I really value
this platform. Now, as well as that,
they also have a second part of this
video, which is a complete code
walkthrough where you see the solution
that's built line by line. So this isn't
some random YouTuber explaining things.
It's structured learning from someone
who's actually passed interviews at
Google and Facebook. Now, they also have
a data structures and algorithms crash
course that covers all of the
fundamentals that you need to start
with, but without wasting a ton of time.
So big notation, complexity, all of the
major data structures, it's covered. So
if you're rusty on that, you can start
with the foundations, learn those
quickly, and then move into the
questions and everything is organized by
category and difficulty. So you have
easy, medium, hard, and very hard, which
in my opinion is a lot more accurate
than the ratings you would have on lead
code. So you always know what kind of
problems to work on and the order you
should go about doing them. Now, another
major thing that a lot of people skip is
actually learning the specific type of
interview prep based on the type of
interview they're going to go into. Now,
Algo Expert has a lot of other products
that aren't just this leak code style
problem. For example, they have systems
expert for system design, right?
Front-end expert for front-end roles, ML
expert, infrastructure expert, iOS
expert. They have all of these different
types of products which are all bundled
in the price. So, no matter what type of
niche you're going into, not only do you
get the core problems that you always
need to know, but the exact expertise
and niche type problems that you're
going to get asked in an iOS interview
or a front-end interview. Now, look, I'm
not just saying all of this. This is
actually the platform that I personally
used. I solved over 70 questions on it
when I was getting started because when
I started and I was using YouTube and Le
code and other platforms, I was never
building that intuition. But when I
watched the videos on Algo Expert,
legitimately this is the reason I was
able to pass my interviews very quickly
because I could build that problem
solving skill which I wasn't getting
from any of the other methods. You have
the interactivity of course you have
enough problems but again the videos and
the structure and explanation to me is
the most valuable part and that's why I
personally recommend it. It feels a lot
more like a system and a structure
rather than just kind of like randomly
picking questions which can be really
discouraging especially when you get
into the hundreds. Now again, like I
said, I got an offer from Microsoft for
this, which I accepted. I also got
offers from Shopify, and then later on
in life, Google. And this isn't because
I'm a genius. It's not because I got
lucky, but it's because I stopped making
the mistakes that I mentioned in this
video. Now, right now, Algo Expert
actually has a special offer where you
can get all of the products that I
mentioned, which is usually worth over
$600, for just $119. I'm going to leave
the link in the description, but you can
see for yourself that over 200,000
engineers have used this to land jobs at
top tech companies. And if you're tired
of making the same mistakes and
wondering why you're not getting offers,
this is your sign to change your
approach, right? Whether you use Algo
Expert, it doesn't matter, but you need
to use something that gives you that
structure and teaches you that
intuition. Anyways, the links for
everything that I mentioned here will be
available in the description down below.
Good luck preparing for your coding
interviews.